Um,
how did the war and the dropping of the bomb, how has
that affected you after you got out of the service
and up to today?
Well, I think the experiences of the war are, they
had a great meaning to me at the time and they still,
and still do. it was a time of sacrifice for
everyone. Those overseas doing what they were
called upon to do there and wanted back home.
Everybody was in the mood to sacrifice, and they
did. And once the war ended, you know, at that point
your mind turned to, you know, let's go home with my
family, pick up life, and get started again. I was
still Twenty-one at the time. And I thought, well,
twenty-two at the time, excuse me. And I thought,
well, I've got to complete my education, and I'm
married, I've got to get a career going here. So I
can provide for my family and enjoy this peace that
we have preserved, so to speak. I'm grateful
really for the opportunity that I had to serve.
They were great experiences, maturing
experiences. In a time like that you can go from a
kid to a man pretty quickly. It doesn't make any
difference what your age is. When the time comes
that you're required to be a man, and if you step up
to it, and do a man's work does something to you. You
mature. A lot of times I think we never get that
opportunity. And I'm glad I had it because I think
it's probably helped me all my life. Separate the
real meaningful things from the
shallow things. Worldly. Yeah. And so... it had a
great meaning to me. I really wanted to get back and
get going. So I was released from the service in May
of 1946. I
entered SMU in June of 1946. And prior to the war, I
had 18 hours of college credits. So I started in
June of 1946, and in August of 48, 26 months later, I
had a bachelor of business administration degree
from SMU. And I worked day and night, had night
classes, day classes, wherever I could get a job.
And I worked classes around that. And my dear
companion worked. And we just, we went through
this age. I lost about 30 pounds during that 26
months going to school, working and studying and
doing
I wanted to get it done. I was in a hurry to get it
done. It was like you jump out of that airplane at
the end of the war running. Go. And so I did that. And
I pretty well knew what I wanted to do. I wanted to be
in the line of work that I got in and studied for. And
have been successful, relatively. I retired
six weeks ago. And I reached the level of Vice
President in my company and had success there. I
had more than one career. I was in real estate
development and another career. And then came
back to my original career and retired there. So I
had a measure of success, you know. Nothing
spectacular, but satisfying to me. That's
success. I had a very happy life. Just before I
graduated from SMU, our first child was born, our
daughter. And then four years later, our son. So
life's been good. I've been full. It's been
meaningful.
We've been devoted to church work and to doing the
work of the Lord for many years. And it's just been
happy. Peaceful, happy, joyful. Love my
children, love my grandchildren. I think one of my
greatest roles in life is to be a grandfather. I
love to be a grandfather. Love to sit and talk with
them. They think I'm an old relic. But they like to
hear some of my stories. Of course. And I don't mind
being an old relic. I suppose I enjoy my life today
as much as I have ever enjoyed any time in my whole
life. Well, that's super. And I expect to enjoy my
future years even better. Well, retired is one way
to definitely enjoy them. For sure. I'd like to
retire at 24, but I don't know if that's going to be
possible.
Brother Gress, I've got one more question for you.
When you look back at your experiences in war, and
you were stationed, I take it, at Guam, overseas,
what were like the main problems that were
encountered on the ground between soldiers,
between the men on the ground? What were the
greatest conflicts as the war was winding down,
the bombs being dropped? What were kind of
conflicts, kind of frogging of officers? No,
nothing like that. As far as, we had a small group.
There was about,
at the height of the war, we had, I believe, as I
remember, we had 21 crews. Most of us were flying
B-29s, but some of them flew B-24s and did radio
jamming and picking up signals, interpreting
signals and things of that nature. And so we were
all kind of close. We had our own group. separate
from the big 20th Air Force headquarters, our own
officer's club and everything.
We had our wing headquarters were back in Honolulu
and our group headquarters in Denver, Colorado.
off and then bring back bomb bays full of liquor and
all kinds of things like this. And there was a lot of
drinking. There was, with 21 crews in the war over,
we didn't have a lot of flying to do. We'd ferry
troops, we'd do all kinds of things. But as far as
our normal mission, there was nothing to do. We did
fly around and do some aerial photography on some
different islands out of the Pacific just so
they'd have the photographs and do things. And
they proved very valuable later. But we were idle a
lot. We'd go for maybe sometimes a week, maybe once
in a while, even two weeks, and never fly. And so you
really didn't have any duties. And so we would
organize. physical education clubs. We got to
play volleyball. It's hot on Guam. And you'd have
to do that either early in the morning or you
couldn't get anybody out to do it. So we spent a lot
of time at the officer's club in the daytime. You
know, guys would drink, get into arguments, and
they might, you know, swing, take a couple swings
at one another. But nothing serious ever really
came in our entire group. There was not any
disrespect of officers, but we respected the
officers. They would help us. They started
shipping everybody home on the basis of seniority
and length of time overseas. Well, I was the young
kid on the block, so to speak, and the war was over
about six months before I ever came home. So I spent
about six months just kind of wasting time goofing
around. Tried to read a lot. whatever you know
pastime and do slept a lot so it seems to me like the
biggest problem was boredom well yeah because it
just wasn't that much to do we'd go to the motor pool
and get a truck or whatever we get and we just loaded
full we just drive around the island just
sightseeing and see things go down the beach and
spend the whole day down there take some food with
us learn on the beach and just just have fun you know
Just to do whatever you could find, anything you
could find to do, you'd go do it. That's super.
Brother Grass, I appreciate the interview. I hope
that other people get something out of it like I
have. It's been great. I've enjoyed reliving the
experience, Frankie. It's been fun for me, too.
I've enjoyed it. Well, thank you very much. Thank
you.